# Atomic Transaction

IOTA 1.0 used the concept of bundles to create transfers. Bundles are a set of transactions that are linked together by their root reference. These transactions have a fixed layout and size regardless of their "content". A signature with security level 1 would also fit into just one transaction, but security level 2 signatures are used by default. However, since the level 2 signature of value transactions does not fit into a single transaction, at least 3 transactions must be used to create a simple transmission: 2 transactions for the input + its signature and one transaction (without signature). Another disadvantage of bundles is mainly faced by developers, because it is much more complicated to get all transactions from a bundle and arrange them properly, instead of just processing a single message.

**With the update to IOTA 1.5, the old bundle construct was removed, and the more simple Atomic Transactions were introduced instead. This change brings the following benefits:**

**Less network overhead:** The transaction format can be adapted so that only the information that is really needed is transmitted. A lot of unnecessary information, such as for the successive transactions of a bundle, can be dispensed

**Fewer signature verifications:** After Coordicide, each transaction must include the node ID and signature of the node that issued the transaction. This means that for a simple transmission, the signatures of at least 3 transactions must be verified. Signature verification is the most costly part of transaction processing. Therefore, the introduction of node IDs would reduce node performance by at least 300% if the original bundle approach is maintained. The bottom line is that nodes will be able to process hundreds, perhaps even thousands, fewer transactions than would be the case with atomic transactions.

**Better spam protection and overload control:** The size of the bundle is not known until the last transaction has arrived. This could result in a certain number of transactions being accepted and routed, only to discover later that the issuing node has exceeded its quota (rate control) and subsequently disregard all further transactions. This means that transactions were currently being routed and processed that should have been filtered from the beginning if it had been known that the issuing node was trying to send a transfer that was too large. This could even open up an attack vector where a node issues different bundles to different people, who all start processing the bundle’s transactions and then drop them at different times, unnecessarily increasing the load on the network.

**Shorter Merkle proofs (for Sharding):** Merkle proofs for inter-shard transactions become much shorter (at least 300%) when not all transactions in a bundle have to be passed through to get to the next transfer. This makes inter-shard transactions much faster and more lightweight.

**Developer-friendly:** Single messages are much easier to process.

**Conclusion**: Atomic transactions are much faster, more flexible (variable transaction size) and put less load on the network. They are also better suited for later Sharding / slicing than bundles.
